OSDOCS-4347: Account Information: installing-aws-localzone created from cloudformation (#54535)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-aws-add-local-zone-locations.adoc

= Opting into AWS Local Zones

If you plan to create the subnets in AWS Local Zones, you must opt in to each zone group separately.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the AWS CLI.
* You have determined into which region you will deploy your {product-title} cluster.

.Procedure

. Export a variable to contain the name of the region in which you plan to deploy your {product-title} cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export CLUSTER_REGION="<region_name>" <1>
----
<1> For `<region_name>`, specify a valid AWS region name, such as `us-east-1`.

. Review the list of zones that your region contains by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 describe-availability-zones \
    --filters Name=region-name,Values=${CLUSTER_REGION} \
    --query 'AvailabilityZones[].ZoneName' \
    --all-availability-zones
----
+
Depending on the region, the list of available zones can be long. The different zones use the following naming conventions:
+
`${REGION}[a-z]`:: Availability zones available in the region.
`${REGION}-LID-N[a-z]`:: Available AWS Local Zones. `${REGION}LID-N` is the zone group identifier, and `[a-z]` is the zone identifier.

> `${REGION}-wl1-LID-wlz-[1-9]`:: Available Wavelength zones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`${REGION}-wl1-LID-wlz-[1-9]`:: Available Wavelength zones.
```

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer 2: I found it became a section in the AWS Account Setup. Is it expected? It seems to be confusing for the users who want to follow the user guide. As it is used only for Local Zones, does it make sense to keep it on the Local Zone installing guide?

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer 3: We have the rest of the account configuration options in the other topic and a note about when users would need to do it. I'm not opposed to moving it to the installation topic, though.

//
// * installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-localzone.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-aws-add-local-zone-locations_{context}"]

> = Opting into AWS Local Zones

Reviewer 3: I'll leave this open to get a second opinion from the peer review squad.

> = Opting in to local zone locations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Opt in to Local Zones
```

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html#opt-in-local-zone

Reviewer 3: I'm happy to fix the capitalization, but using a gerund in procedure titles is a repo standard.

Author: Done, thank you!

If you plan to install your cluster by using Cloud Formation templates and using local zones, you must opt in to each local zone separately.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the AWS CLI.
* You have determined into which region you will deploy your {product-title} cluster.

.Procedure

. Export a variable to contain the name of the region in which you plan to deploy your {product-title} cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export CLUSTER_REGION="<region_name>" <1>
----
<1> For `<region_name>`, specify a valid AWS region name, such as `us-east-1`.

. Review the list of zones that your region contains by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws ec2 describe-availability-zones \
    --filters Name=region-name,Values=${CLUSTER_REGION} \
    --query 'AvailabilityZones[].ZoneName' \
    --all-availability-zones
----
+

> Depending on the region, the list of available zones can be long.  list can be long. Things you need to know:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the region, the list of available zones can be long. Things you need to know:
```

+
`${REGION}[a-z]`:: Availability zones available in the region.

> `${REGION}-LID-N[a-z]`:: Local Zones available. `LID-N` is the location identifier, and `[a-z]` is the zone identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`${REGION}-LID-N[a-z]`:: Available Local Zones. `${REGION}-LID-N` is the zone group identifier, and `[a-z]` is the zone identifier.
```

Author: Done! Thank you!

`${REGION}-wl1-LID-wlz-[1-9]`:: Available Wavelength zones

. Export a variable to contain the name of the local zone to host your VPC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export ZONE_GROUP_NAME="${CLUSTER_REGION}-<location_identifier>-<zone_identifier>" <1>
----
<1> For `<location_identifier>-<zone_identifier>`, specify the location identifier and zone identifier for the local zone that you selected for your region. For example, specify `nyc-1a` to use the US East (New York) local zone.

> . Opt in to the location for your AWS account by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Opt in to the zone group on your AWS account by running the following command:
```

Author: Done, Thank You!
